README.md, before:

TheBar
======
2015-11-03 



Hi folks, welcome to the bar.
Listen to some of our customer's stories.


- [Joe's Corner](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheBar/blob/master/joe/README.md): tells you about how the universe should be organized
- [DevicesResolutions](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheBar/blob/master/DevicesResolutions/devices-resolutions.md): devices resolutions cheat sheet
- [Secure file upload discussion](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheBar/blob/master/discussions/secure-file-upload.md): a discussion about secure file upload
- [Preventing path traversal attacks](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheBar/blob/master/discussions/preventing-path-traversal-attacks.md): a discussion about directory traversal attacks and how to prevent them in php



TheBar is part of the [universe framework](https://github.com/karayabin/universe-snapshot).


Install
==========
Using the [uni](https://github.com/lingtalfi/universe-naive-importer) command.
```bash
uni import Ling/TheBar
```

History Log
===============

- 1.2.1 -- 2019-10-16

    - add link to disussion
    
- 1.2.0 -- 2019-10-16

    - add preventing path traversal attacks discussion
    
- 1.1.1 -- 2019-10-03

    - fix typo
    
- 1.1.0 -- 2019-10-03

    - add secure file upload discussion
    
- 1.0.0 -- 2015-11-03

    - initial commit

Commit message:

update add precision to recommendation in secure file upload

README.md, after:

TheBar
======
2015-11-03 



Hi folks, welcome to the bar.
Listen to some of our customer's stories.


- [Joe's Corner](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheBar/blob/master/joe/README.md): tells you about how the universe should be organized
- [DevicesResolutions](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheBar/blob/master/DevicesResolutions/devices-resolutions.md): devices resolutions cheat sheet
- [Secure file upload discussion](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheBar/blob/master/discussions/secure-file-upload.md): a discussion about secure file upload
- [Preventing path traversal attacks](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheBar/blob/master/discussions/preventing-path-traversal-attacks.md): a discussion about directory traversal attacks and how to prevent them in php



TheBar is part of the [universe framework](https://github.com/karayabin/universe-snapshot).


Install
==========
Using the [uni](https://github.com/lingtalfi/universe-naive-importer) command.
```bash
uni import Ling/TheBar
```

History Log
===============

- 1.2.2 -- 2019-10-16

    - add precision to recommendation in secure file upload
    
- 1.2.1 -- 2019-10-16

    - add link to disussion
    
- 1.2.0 -- 2019-10-16

    - add preventing path traversal attacks discussion
    
- 1.1.1 -- 2019-10-03

    - fix typo
    
- 1.1.0 -- 2019-10-03

    - add secure file upload discussion
    
- 1.0.0 -- 2015-11-03

    - initial commit
