joe/README.md, before:

Joe's corner
=================
2015-11-03



They say that the universe is a big mess,
but I've got my little theory about how planets should be organized.





Php
=======


Array 
--------------
- [ArrayToString](https://github.com/lingtalfi/ArrayToString): Utility to export a php array in various string formats 
- [ArrayToTable](https://github.com/lingtalfi/ArrayToTable): Create an html table from a php array 



Autoloader 
--------------
- [BumbleBee](https://github.com/lingtalfi/BumbleBee): this planet contains the [butineur autoloader](https://github.com/lingtalfi/BumbleBee/tree/master/Autoload) and defines the [BSR-0 convention](https://github.com/lingtalfi/BumbleBee/blob/master/Autoload/convention.bsr0.eng.md) 


Bloggers
-----------
- [ConventionGuy](https://github.com/lingtalfi/ConventionGuy): a guy who likes conventions
- [Dreamer](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Dreamer): that dude thinks he can predict the future
- [Observer](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Observer): the oldest blogger of the universe I know of
- [TheAnarchist](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheAnarchist): blog from a random php dev
- [TheBar](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheBar): that's my crew
- [TheScientist](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheScientist): the author of the famous [bigbang script](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheScientist/blob/master/bigbang/bigbang.php) and the [portable autoloader technique](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheScientist/blob/master/convention.portableAutoloader.eng.md)


Console
----------
- [CommandLineManiac](https://github.com/lingtalfi/CommandLineManiac): Tools for command line scripts written in php



Database 
--------------
- [QuickPdo](https://github.com/lingtalfi/QuickPdo): contains basic methods to interact with a mysql database via pdo 


Debug 
--------------
- [ArrayToString](https://github.com/lingtalfi/ArrayToString): Utility to export a php array in various string formats 
- [MysqlTabular](https://github.com/lingtalfi/MysqlTabular): Generate a mysql table with the "console" format
- [ReflectionRepresentation](https://github.com/lingtalfi/ReflectionRepresentation): Class to help with representation of \Reflection elements
- [VariableToString](https://github.com/lingtalfi/VariableToString): Utility to write any php variable to a string representation

FileSystem 
--------------

- [CopyDir](https://github.com/lingtalfi/CopyDir): Utility to copy a dir recursively
- [DirScanner](https://github.com/lingtalfi/DirScanner): Utility to scan a directory recursively and do something on every entry



Formatting
--------------
- [ArrayToTable](https://github.com/lingtalfi/ArrayToTable): Create an html table from a php array
- [MysqlTabular](https://github.com/lingtalfi/MysqlTabular): Generate a mysql table with the "console" format
- [ReflectionRepresentation](https://github.com/lingtalfi/ReflectionRepresentation): Class to help with representation of \Reflection elements
- [StringTool](https://github.com/lingtalfi/StringFormatter): Tool to format string


Log 
--------------
- [ApplicationLog](https://github.com/lingtalfi/ApplicationLog): Lightweight object to quickly send a message to a log file
- [QuickLog](https://github.com/lingtalfi/QuickLog): Lightweight object to quickly send a message to a log file




Multi-purpose 
--------------
- [Bat](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Bat): multi-purpose library of tools
- [Bate](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Bate): multi-purpose library of tools, extension of [Bat](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Bat)


Notation (custom notations)
--------------
- [NotationFan](https://github.com/lingtalfi/NotationFan): contains an implementation of the [id filter notation](https://github.com/lingtalfi/NotationFan/blob/master/IdFilter/notation.idFilter.eng.md)
- [Ornella](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Ornella): notation for replacing {tags} with a customized value 
- [Tiphaine](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Tiphaine): Tool for converting a string to a mixed value, using tiphaine notation



Rss
----------
- [RssUtil](https://github.com/lingtalfi/RssUtil): RssUtil contains utilities related to rss

Sitemap
----------
- [SitemapBuilderBox](https://github.com/lingtalfi/SitemapBuilderBox): Utilities to create basic sitemaps
- [SitemapSlicer](https://github.com/lingtalfi/SitemapSlicer): Generate a sitemap index and its related sitemaps using data from your database


String 
----------
- [Escaper](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Escaper): A tool helping with string escaping
- [Quoter](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Quoter): Utilities to manipulate quotes
- [StringTool](https://github.com/lingtalfi/StringFormatter): Tool to format string
- [Tiphaine](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Tiphaine): Tool for converting a string to a mixed value, using tiphaine notation
- [WrappedString](https://github.com/lingtalfi/WrappedString): Low level utilities to work with wrapped strings


Testing
----------
- [Beauty](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Beauty): An implementation of the beauty part of the [beauty'n'beast](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Dreamer/blob/master/UnitTesting/BeautyNBeast/pattern.beautyNBeast.eng.md) unit testing pattern
- [PhpBeast](https://github.com/lingtalfi/PhpBeast): This is a php implementation of the Beast component of the [Beauty n Beast pattern](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Dreamer/blob/master/UnitTesting/BeautyNBeast/pattern.beautyNBeast.eng.md)


Web
--------
- [Tim](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Tim): Protocol (and tools) to help with communication between a client and a server
- [UrlFriendlyListHelper](https://github.com/lingtalfi/UrlFriendlyListHelper): Utility to handle pagination, sort and search in your html lists



Xml
----------
- [MySimpleXmlElement](https://github.com/lingtalfi/MySimpleXmlElement): Yet another implementation of php's SimpleXmlElement class






Javascript
=============

Library
----------
- [JQuery](https://github.com/lingtalfi/JQuery): Some compressed Jquery libraries
- [Pea](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Pea): Php like functions in js

Plugins
----------
- [videojs-ad-markers](https://github.com/lingtalfi/videojs-ad-markers): Plugin for videojs which provides basic functionality to implement an advertising system
- [videojs-swapping-playlist](https://github.com/lingtalfi/videojs-swapping-playlist): Plugin for videojs which provides playlist with no latency in between videos
- [fullcalendar-php-services](https://github.com/lingtalfi/fullcalendar-php-services): Php implementation of fullcalendar basic interactions

Commit message:

update joe corner add Indented Lines

joe/README.md, after:

Joe's corner
=================
2015-11-03



They say that the universe is a big mess,
but I've got my little theory about how planets should be organized.





Php
=======


Array 
--------------
- [ArrayToString](https://github.com/lingtalfi/ArrayToString): Utility to export a php array in various string formats 
- [ArrayToTable](https://github.com/lingtalfi/ArrayToTable): Create an html table from a php array 



Autoloader 
--------------
- [BumbleBee](https://github.com/lingtalfi/BumbleBee): this planet contains the [butineur autoloader](https://github.com/lingtalfi/BumbleBee/tree/master/Autoload) and defines the [BSR-0 convention](https://github.com/lingtalfi/BumbleBee/blob/master/Autoload/convention.bsr0.eng.md) 


Bloggers
-----------
- [ConventionGuy](https://github.com/lingtalfi/ConventionGuy): a guy who likes conventions
- [Dreamer](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Dreamer): that dude thinks he can predict the future
- [Observer](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Observer): the oldest blogger of the universe I know of
- [TheAnarchist](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheAnarchist): blog from a random php dev
- [TheBar](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheBar): that's my crew
- [TheScientist](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheScientist): the author of the famous [bigbang script](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheScientist/blob/master/bigbang/bigbang.php) and the [portable autoloader technique](https://github.com/lingtalfi/TheScientist/blob/master/convention.portableAutoloader.eng.md)


Console
----------
- [CommandLineManiac](https://github.com/lingtalfi/CommandLineManiac): Tools for command line scripts written in php



Database 
--------------
- [QuickPdo](https://github.com/lingtalfi/QuickPdo): contains basic methods to interact with a mysql database via pdo 


Debug 
--------------
- [ArrayToString](https://github.com/lingtalfi/ArrayToString): Utility to export a php array in various string formats 
- [MysqlTabular](https://github.com/lingtalfi/MysqlTabular): Generate a mysql table with the "console" format
- [ReflectionRepresentation](https://github.com/lingtalfi/ReflectionRepresentation): Class to help with representation of \Reflection elements
- [VariableToString](https://github.com/lingtalfi/VariableToString): Utility to write any php variable to a string representation

FileSystem 
--------------

- [CopyDir](https://github.com/lingtalfi/CopyDir): Utility to copy a dir recursively
- [DirScanner](https://github.com/lingtalfi/DirScanner): Utility to scan a directory recursively and do something on every entry



Formatting
--------------
- [ArrayToTable](https://github.com/lingtalfi/ArrayToTable): Create an html table from a php array
- [MysqlTabular](https://github.com/lingtalfi/MysqlTabular): Generate a mysql table with the "console" format
- [ReflectionRepresentation](https://github.com/lingtalfi/ReflectionRepresentation): Class to help with representation of \Reflection elements
- [StringTool](https://github.com/lingtalfi/StringFormatter): Tool to format string


Log 
--------------
- [ApplicationLog](https://github.com/lingtalfi/ApplicationLog): Lightweight object to quickly send a message to a log file
- [QuickLog](https://github.com/lingtalfi/QuickLog): Lightweight object to quickly send a message to a log file




Multi-purpose 
--------------
- [Bat](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Bat): multi-purpose library of tools
- [Bate](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Bate): multi-purpose library of tools, extension of [Bat](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Bat)


Notation (custom notations)
--------------
- [IndentedLines](https://github.com/lingtalfi/IndentedLines): convert lists in indentedLines format to php arrays
- [NotationFan](https://github.com/lingtalfi/NotationFan): contains an implementation of the [id filter notation](https://github.com/lingtalfi/NotationFan/blob/master/IdFilter/notation.idFilter.eng.md)
- [Ornella](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Ornella): notation for replacing {tags} with a customized value 
- [Tiphaine](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Tiphaine): Tool for converting a string to a mixed value, using tiphaine notation



Rss
----------
- [RssUtil](https://github.com/lingtalfi/RssUtil): RssUtil contains utilities related to rss

Sitemap
----------
- [SitemapBuilderBox](https://github.com/lingtalfi/SitemapBuilderBox): Utilities to create basic sitemaps
- [SitemapSlicer](https://github.com/lingtalfi/SitemapSlicer): Generate a sitemap index and its related sitemaps using data from your database


String 
----------
- [Escaper](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Escaper): A tool helping with string escaping
- [Quoter](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Quoter): Utilities to manipulate quotes
- [StringTool](https://github.com/lingtalfi/StringFormatter): Tool to format string
- [Tiphaine](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Tiphaine): Tool for converting a string to a mixed value, using tiphaine notation
- [WrappedString](https://github.com/lingtalfi/WrappedString): Low level utilities to work with wrapped strings


Testing
----------
- [Beauty](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Beauty): An implementation of the beauty part of the [beauty'n'beast](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Dreamer/blob/master/UnitTesting/BeautyNBeast/pattern.beautyNBeast.eng.md) unit testing pattern
- [PhpBeast](https://github.com/lingtalfi/PhpBeast): This is a php implementation of the Beast component of the [Beauty n Beast pattern](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Dreamer/blob/master/UnitTesting/BeautyNBeast/pattern.beautyNBeast.eng.md)


Web
--------
- [Tim](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Tim): Protocol (and tools) to help with communication between a client and a server
- [UrlFriendlyListHelper](https://github.com/lingtalfi/UrlFriendlyListHelper): Utility to handle pagination, sort and search in your html lists



Xml
----------
- [MySimpleXmlElement](https://github.com/lingtalfi/MySimpleXmlElement): Yet another implementation of php's SimpleXmlElement class






Javascript
=============

Library
----------
- [JQuery](https://github.com/lingtalfi/JQuery): Some compressed Jquery libraries
- [Pea](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Pea): Php like functions in js

Plugins
----------
- [videojs-ad-markers](https://github.com/lingtalfi/videojs-ad-markers): Plugin for videojs which provides basic functionality to implement an advertising system
- [videojs-swapping-playlist](https://github.com/lingtalfi/videojs-swapping-playlist): Plugin for videojs which provides playlist with no latency in between videos
- [fullcalendar-php-services](https://github.com/lingtalfi/fullcalendar-php-services): Php implementation of fullcalendar basic interactions
